[DO] Adding Durable Object base class (#18423)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/durable-objects/api/base.mdx

---
title: Durable Object Base Class
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, GlossaryTooltip, Type, MetaInfo } from "~/components";

> {/* DEFINITION OF DO BASE CLASS TBC */}

Reviewer: I would fill in this section with the following:

> The `DurableObject` base class is an abstract class which all Durable Objects inherit from. This base class provides a set of optional methods, frequently referred to as handler methods, which can respond to events, for example a webSocketMessage when using the WebSocket Hibernation API (Add link). To provide a concrete example, here is a Durable Object, `MyDurableObject` which extends `DurableObject` and implements the fetch handler to return "Hello, World!" to the calling Worker. 
```ts
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(ctx: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {
		super(ctx, env);
	}

	async fetch(request: Request) {
		return new Response("Hello, World!");
	}
}
```

The type definition is:
```
export abstract class DurableObject<Env = unknown>
    implements Rpc.DurableObjectBranded
  {
    [Rpc.__DURABLE_OBJECT_BRAND]: never;
    protected ctx: DurableObjectState;
    protected env: Env;
    constructor(ctx: DurableObjectState, env: Env);
    fetch?(request: Request): Response | Promise<Response>;
    alarm?(): void | Promise<void>;
    webSocketMessage?(
      ws: WebSocket,
      message: string | ArrayBuffer,
    ): void | Promise<void>;
    webSocketClose?(
      ws: WebSocket,
      code: number,
      reason: string,
      wasClean: boolean,
    ): void | Promise<void>;
    webSocketError?(ws: WebSocket, error: unknown): void | Promise<void>;
  }
```
So therefore we need `alarm` and `fetch` documented as well.

## Methods

### `webSocketMessage`

- <code> webSocketMessage(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, message{" "} <Type text="string | ArrayBuffer" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when an accepted WebSocket receives a message.

  - This method can be `async`.

  - This method is not called for WebSocket control frames. The system will respond to an incoming [WebSocket protocol ping](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6455#section-5.5.2) automatically without interrupting hibernation.

> ### `webSocketClose`

Reviewer: `alarm` should also be added and it is currently documented on the alarm docs. This could be a follow up.

- <code> webSocketClose(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, code <Type text="number" />,reason <Type text="string" />, wasClean <Type text="boolean" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when a WebSocket is closed. `wasClean()` is true if the connection closed cleanly, false otherwise.

  - This method can be `async`.

### `webSocketError`

- <code> webSocketError(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, error <Type text="any" />)</code> : <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when any non-disconnection related errors occur.

  - This method can be `async`.

## Properties

> {/* Properties of DO Base Class TBC */}

Reviewer: These properties are properties of the parent class: 
```
  protected ctx: DurableObjectState;
  protected env: Env;
```
The former can link to the DurableObjectState documentation. The `Env` property is a list of bindings which are available to the Durable Object.

<TypeScriptExample>
```ts
export class MyDurableObject extends DurableObject {
	constructor(ctx: DurableObjectState, env: Env) {
		super(ctx, env);
	}

	async fetch(request: Request) {
		return new Response("Hello, World!");
	}
}
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Methods

### `fetch`

- <code>fetch(<Type text="Request"/>)</code>: <Type text="Response"/> | <Type text="Promise <Response>"/>

  - Takes an HTTP request object and returns an HTTP response object. This method allows the Durable Object to emulate an HTTP server where a Worker with a binding to that object is the client.

  - This method can be `async`.

### `alarm`

- <code>alarm()</code>: <Type text="Promise <void>"/>

  - Called by the system when a scheduled alarm time is reached.

>   - The `alarm()` handler has guaranteed at-least-once execution and will be retried upon failure using exponential backoff, starting at 2 second delays for up to 6 retries. Retries will be performed if the method fails with an uncaught exception.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The `alarm()` handler has guaranteed at-least-once execution and will be retried upon failure using exponential backoff, starting at two second delays for up to six retries. Retries will be performed if the method fails with an uncaught exception.
```

  - This method can be `async`.

  - Refer to [`alarm`](/durable-objects/api/alarms/#alarm) for more information.

### `webSocketMessage`

- <code> webSocketMessage(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, message{" "} <Type text="string | ArrayBuffer" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

  - Called by the system when an accepted WebSocket receives a message.

  - This method can be `async`.

  - This method is not called for WebSocket control frames. The system will respond to an incoming [WebSocket protocol ping](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6455#section-5.5.2) automatically without interrupting hibernation.

### `webSocketClose`

> - <code> webSocketClose(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, code <Type text="number" />,reason <Type text="string" />, wasClean <Type text="boolean" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- <code> webSocketClose(ws <Type text="WebSocket" />, code <Type text="number" />, reason <Type text="string" />, wasClean <Type text="boolean" />)</code>: <Type text="void" />
```
